---
id: 672a5c57-2cfc-4f54-9efd-fd6254f59e89
title: Adventures Session 304
desc: 'Campaign session 304'
updated: 1635394067703
created: 1617537792497
---
So I'm starting to keep a journal of the... will to be honest, slight 'mis' adventures of these adventures I've been assigned to learn more about. Unfortunately this entry will all be here say as I choose to stay behind to continue studying the ziggurat covered in strange writings that we discovered. Though based on what I heard I'm not at all upset at having missed anything. After the group dealt with the Cloud Ape and rested they headed back out to continue to explore the ruins in an effort to find and stop Garrow from... whatever it is he is doing. From the bits I've been able to gather it appears no one is entirely clear on what that is. There also a comment or two about him being 'back' but I wasn't exactly paying attention at that point so will have to inquire about that later.

Regardless, the others picked up where they left off with the Cloud Ape, and continued to circle the outside of the temple following the trail left by the two Emerald Guards that fled the fight earlier. (Speaking of Emerald Guards, there are two here that seem to have shifted allegiances. They are now working for the Pips. Which also reminds me, what kind of adventuring party name is the Pips? Anyway, Fred and Eddie I think are their names, they are... I don't know what. I'm pretty sure I saw the exchange of quite a bit of coinage so maybe that is what changed their opinion? They don't exactly seem the smartest pair.)

Eventually they found a giant spiral staircase and made their way up to the next level. There they discovered a storeroom full of supplies, enough to keep this lot feed for months it seems. Oh, and there was a Glyph of Warding on the door that I hear go off here. Surprised no one was killed but these seem to be a hearty lot.

After working their way through more hallways they discovered another researcher studying a giant stone throne. Apparently their name was Matild Lornan, and they were a provost at Morgrave University. Clearly a ruse. I would have seen through it immediately, alas I wasn't there. After a lengthy conversation they too began to study the throne before remembering they were tracking the guards. This Matild claimed not to see them being so intent on her investigation. As if. It was shortly after that she apparently disappeared. Johann and Camellia noticed some of the constellations around the base of the throne light up on sequence. At first they thought something they did or touched caused it to happen but they were unable to reproduce the effects.  Apparently Camellia either tried or wanted to try something involving her magic or something but I got lost in her exuberance. I did hear, or thought I heard, her say something about trying to communicate telepathically with the throne. I must have heard that wrong though.

After several minutes of trying to reproduce the effect Camilla climbed into the throne itself and experienced something that, I must admit, I had trouble believing. She said it was like the heavens came down and surrounded her. She saw the stars as if she were up there with them (which is impossible), and felt like she could touch them. It sounded very much like a fever dream but she was insistent and Johann, who seems to have a more level head, confirmed her statements. If they are correct the potential contributions to those that study the stars are enormous.

It was then they discovered the secret that I should have seen from the beginning were I not so caught up in the excitement of it all, speaking the names of 6 constellations, all of which are clearly written on the ziggurat (though admittedly encoded) caused each grouping to flare brightly in the image of the stars they sat in. After speaking the last name they were teleported elsewhere. The exact location is unknown but they were sure it was within the temple or very nearby.

Within they discovered something else that, means very little to me, but apparently meant quite a bit to them. It seems this Garrow wasn't in fact a vampire, but was rather a Changeling. This was evident, so I'm told, by the that their features kept changing over and over. Oh, I should probably explain why that was happening. It would seem that something called Xulo had invaded the poor creatures mind and was tormenting them from within. Overpowered as they were they lost all control of their innate ability to shapeshift. This was particularly disturbing to Johann and Camilla as the seem to recognize several of Garrow's faces. I believe they mentioned an airship captain, a train passenger, a diplomat at a ball, a noble who had a child kidnapped, and a couple of others that I don't remember at the moment. It appears that this Garrow has encountered the group multiple times and has been interfering with them somewhat.

It is at this point I believe that Garrow screamed something and threw a creation pattern away from himself and into the mess of wires. Oh, right, I should explain that as well. The room was described as being fairly large (as is the rest of the temple being built for giants), with eight glowing pillars, each a different color. Protruding from each pillar was a mass of wires, but mechanical in nature as well as biological. These wires all lead to a massive warforged like creature in the center of the room.
